Create dm-compatibility-catalog.md (#8270)
pingcap/docs: dm/dm-compatibility-catalog.md

---
title: Compatibility Catalog of TiDB Data Migration
summary: This document describes the compatibility between DM of different versions and upstream/downstream databases.
---

# Compatibility Catalog of TiDB Data Migration

DM supports migrating data from different sources to TiDB clusters. Based on the data source type, DM has four compatibility levels:

- **Generally available (GA)**: The application scenario has been verified and passed the GA test.
- **Experimental**: Although the application scenario has been verified, the test does not cover all scenarios or involves only a limited number of users. The application scenario might encounter problems occasionally.

> - **Not tested**: DM is expected to be always compatible with MySQL during iteration. However, due to resource constraints, we cannot test all MySQL-derived versions. Therefore, the application is technically compatible with MySQL, but is not fully tested, which means you need to perform a test to ensure compatibility.

Reviewer: @sunzhaoyang  What does "MySQL 衍生版本" mean exactly? I assume you mean "MySQL forks" such as MariaDB?
```suggestion
- **Not tested**: DM is expected to be always compatible with MySQL during iteration. However, due to resource constraints, not all MySQL forks are tested with DM. Therefore, the *not tested* source or target is technically compatible with DM, but is not fully tested, which means you need to verify its compatibility before you use.
```

Reviewer 2: Yes

- **Incompatible**: DM is proved to be incompatible with the data source and the application is not recommended for use in production environments.

## Data sources

|Data source|Compatibility level|Remarks|
|-|-|-|
|MySQL ≤ 5.5|Not tested||
|MySQL 5.6|GA||
|MySQL 5.7|GA||
|MySQL 8.0|Experimental||
|MariaDB < 10.1.2|Incompatible|Incompatible with binlog of the time type|
|MariaDB 10.1.2 ~ 10.5.10|Experimental||
|MariaDB > 10.5.10|Incompatible|Permission errors reported in the check procedure|

## Target databases

> **Warning:**
>

> > DM 5.3.0 is not recommended because data replication fails with low probability if you have enabled GTID replication but do not enable relay log.

Reviewer: It's recommended to put if clauses upfront. [ref](https://developers.google.com/style/clause-order)
```suggestion
> DM v5.3.0 is not recommended. If you have enabled GTID replication but do not enable relay log in DM v5.3.0, data replication fails with low probability.
```
